INFSCI0010:INTRODUCTION TO INFORMATION, SYSTEMS AND SOCIETY:Introduction to the concepts, principles, and skills of information science for students with no programming experience.  Topics include the need for information and the use of information, data collection, coding, storage and retrieval, information processing, information display, and the evaluation of information. This course is intended for students enrolled in programs other than the BSIS major.
INFSCI0012:INTRODUCTION TO PROGRAMMING:Introduction to concepts, principles, and skills of programming, including compilers, algorithms, and problem solving using a high level programming language such as c. Intended for students with little or no programming experience who seek an information science major.
INFSCI0013:COMPUTER METHODS IN HUMANITIES:This course introduces students to the use of computational modeling and programming to conduct text-based research in the humanities. Course goals include 1) learning how to identify research questions in the humanities that are amenable to computational analysis and processing and 2) designing and implementing xml-based computational systems to explore those questions. No prior programming experience or knowledge of foreign languages required.
INFSCI0014:CYBERSECURITY AND THE LAW:
INFSCI0017:OBJECT-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING (replaced by CMPINF 0401, effective April 30, 2021):First programming course for is majors, designed for students with little or no programming experience.  Basic principles and concepts of object-oriented programming using java.  Classes, interfaces, operators, program control, arrays, testing, debugging, inheritance, polymorphism, and event handling. Techniques for simplifying the programming process and improving code quality.  Activity-based learning.
INFSCI0310:COMPUTATION IN INFORMATION SCIENCE (replacing INFSCI 0009, effective June 30, 2020):The objective of this course is to introduce the mathematical and computational techniques used in information science with an emphasis on modeling and analysis of information technology (i.e., computers, data centers, communication networks).  Topics course covers fundamental concepts, such as probability, statistical analysis of measurement data, matrix methods, graph theory, and simulation and modeling techniques.  Also Covers Basic mathematical concepts that are relevant to information science, including matrix operators, probability, graph theory, binary codes, and entropy.
INFSCI0410:HUMAN-CENTERED SYSTEMS (replacing INFSCI 1044, effective June 30, 2020):This course is an introduction to the study of the design and implementation of human-centered systems. Human-centered systems place the human at the center of the design process. This course will look at theoretical foundations and formal methods from a variety of fields including computer science, psychology and sociology; the actual design process, the dynamics associated with focusing on the individual, small groups and society; and may include selected special topics (instructor dependent) from the following: geospatial reasoning, mobile interaction, multimedia, ubiquitous computing, haptic interaction, virtual reality, wearable computing and sensor based systems.
INFSCI0510:DATA ANALYSIS (replacing INFSCI 0419, effective June 30, 2020):This course will provide an introduction to programming, data processing, and data analytics using Python for highly motivated students with little or no prior experience in programming. The course will focus on learning the Python programming language in the context of working with data, planning and organizing programs, commonly-used algorithms, data management, data cleaning, basic machine learning, data mining, and fundamentals of computational modeling.
INFSCI0530:DECISION-MAKING IN SPORTS:Students will be introduced to concepts related to data collection, data quality, data analysis and modeling, as well as data visualization, through the context of sports analytics. Data and analytics have been part of the sports industry dating to the 1870s, when the first boxscore in baseball was recorded. Recently, advanced data mining and machine learning techniques have been incorporated into the operations of sports franchises. In this course, students will become familiar with data science concepts and data analysis techniques, the interpretation and use of probabilities, the notion of overfitting and how to avoid it, and the components of a useful visualization.
INFSCI0610:NETWORKS AND INFORMATION (replacing INFSCI 1070, effective June 30, 2020):Networks are present in most aspects of our lives. On a daily basis, we rely on communication networks to get our work done, on transportation networks to travel around the city or aroundthe world, and on social networks (both physical and virtual) for our well being. There are many other ways in which networks enter our lives in visible and invisible ways. This course is an introductory look into the science of networks and how that science affects us in what we do. As a result, we will study some of the basic ideas that emerge out of network science with a particular attention to the ways in which these ideas arise in the networks that touch our lives on a regular basis. One of the principal types of networks that we will study will be computer communications networks. Thus, a secondary goal of this course is to introduce students to some of the principal ideas and technologies in computer networks.
INFSCI1014:GRAPHICS:Techniques for producing graphical displays using computers. How to design and create computer graphics. Overview of artistic and technical knowledge needed to create graphics. What makes a good graphical display will be investigated.
INFSCI1017:IMPLEMENTATION OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS:Second programming course for is majors. Advanced java language features required for professional software development.  Data structures, oo design, graphical user interfaces, exception handling, multithreading, i/o, web and network programming.
INFSCI1021:TRENDS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT:
INFSCI1022:DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS:The design, implementation, and utilization of database management systems.  Contrasts the methodologies of file systems, data management systems, and database management systems.  Various data structures (e.g., Tree, network, linked list) and several database models (e.g., The Codasyl database task group model and the relational database model).  Administrative tasks required in database management are considered.
INFSCI1023:INNOVATION & ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (replaced by INFSCI 1500, effective June 30, 2020):
INFSCI1024:ANALYSIS OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS (replaced by INFSCI 1400, effective June 30, 2020):This course provides state-of-the-art skills in requirements management and scope management, which is critical for successful IT projects. Topics include best practices in eliciting, documenting, verifying and modeling requirements. This is an active learning course where students develop an analysis model for a realistic IT project which can serve as a foundation for INFSCI 1017 and INFSCI 1025. The analysis model is suitable for inclusion in the student's IT portfolio.
INFSCI1025:DESIGN OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS:Object-oriented design best practices; principles of system architecture; design patterns; requirements traceability; construction of UML-compliant models (class, sequence, communication and package diagrams); refactoring; iterative development of system prototype. Requires knowledge of fundamental oo programming concepts including abstract classes, interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism, and message passing.
INFSCI1027:IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT (replaced by INFSCI 1460, effective June 30, 2020):Project management is the discipline to manage and oversee a project from inception to completion.  As more and more organizations look to launch highly competitive and disruptive technologies in the marketplace, it's critical that you can apply these methodologies, tools, and techniques to successfully manage an IT project to completion.  In this course, you will acquire a working knowledge of the two more widely used project management methodologies (Agile and Waterfall) and gain hands-on experience by working through real world case studies.
INFSCI1029:BUSINESS ESSENTIALS FOR THE IT PROFESSIONAL:Changing forces in the marketplace, along with the emergence of cloud computing and smart devices, have dramatically changed the "IT landscape".  These changes are having a profound impact on the industry creating extraordinary opportunities as well as unprecedented challenges for IT professionals.   As an IT professional, being able to adapt to this new landscape and emerge a stronger leader requires a unique approach, as well as a unique set of decision making skills.  This course will enable you to strengthen your skills in problem solving, risk management, and consultative selling which are tools needed for successful decision making.
INFSCI1031:GOING DIGITAL: TRANSFORMATIONAL CHANGE:New digital tools are disrupting traditional business models, forcing organizations to develop new business models and strategies that not only strengthen capabilities and drive growth, but also provide a significant competitive advantage.
INFSCI1040:INTRODUCTION TO DATA ANALYTICS (replaced by INFSCI 1530, effective June 30, 2020):The ability to collect, store and process large amounts of detailed data in a variety of fields has led to a surge in the use of data in various decision-making tasks, ranging from governmental policy-making to drafting players in sports. Data literacy is thus important and In this first introductory course, we will focus on shifting the traditional mode of deterministic (yes/no) thinking to probabilistic thinking. We will see concepts from applied probability and statistics, while we will also explore a variety of data analysis methods including linear regression, matrix factorization, and network analysis.
INFSCI1044:HUMAN FACTORS IN SYSTEM DESIGN (replaced by INFSCI 0410, effective June 30, 2020):Examines human-machine designs with special emphasis on human-computer interaction.  Topics center on how to analyze, create, and improve equipment and environment to be compatible with human capabilities and expectations.
INFSCI1049:INTRODUCTION TO INFORMATION SECURITY:Introductory information security and privacy course for students outside of the BSIS/MSIS/MST majors. Covers fundamental issues and first principles of security and information assurance, including security policies, models and mechanisms related to confidentiality, integrity, authentication, identification, and availability issues related to information and information systems. The course will introduce students to risk management, security assurance, secure design principles, organizational security policy, legal and ethical issues in security, and standards and methodologies for security evaluation and certification.
INFSCI1052:USER CENTERED DESIGN (replaced by INFSCI 1420, effective June 30, 2020):Introduces principles and programming of interactive systems.  Interaction techniques are surveyed and incorporated in the design of interfaces.
INFSCI1059:WEB PROGRAMMING:This course will introduce the PHP scripting language. Students will download and install the apache web server, PHP, and MYSQL database. In addition, PHP installation in the sis labs will be utilized. The course will cover programming concepts, client server architecture, database access and XHTMLl/cascading style sheets. Students will write a full scale web application as their final project.
INFSCI1060:GAME DESIGN (replaced by INFSCI 1450, effective June 30, 2020):Games have become ubiquitous in our modern world.  In addition to entertainment, elements of games are present in everything from promotional advertisements to university classrooms. This course focuses on the exploration of game design in its many permutations. Join us as we critique and design all manner of entertainment and serious game.  The class itself is designed as a multiplayer game experience to immerse and engage the student in game design on a fundamental level. One of the final goals of this class is for each student to have designed two separate games in their entirety.  These games may be useful in the follow up course: INFSCI 1061: Game Implementation.
INFSCI1061:GAME IMPLEMENTATION (replaced by INFSCI 1470, effective June 30, 2020):This course will introduce students to the digital game design and development process using the Unity 3D platform. Students will develop skills in scripting, user interface design, storytelling, and animation, as well as gain technical knowledge required to program, optimize, and deploy games for multiple platforms/devices.
INFSCI1068:GEOSPATIAL INFO SYSTEMS (GIS) (replaced by INFSCI 1550, effective June 30, 2020):Introduction to geographic information system (GIS) concept and technology including spatial data sources, spatial data models and structures, spatial database management, map projection systems, geocoding and Georeferencing, spatial analysis, spatial data visualization (maps), GIS applications (e.g., Address-location finding, navigation, routing), and commercial GIS software packages.
INFSCI1070:INTRO TO TELECOM & NETWORKS (replaced by INFSCI 0610, effective June 30, 2020):Introduction to telecommunications and networks.  Top-down orientation relates networking technologies to organizational goals and needs.  Data communications and internet technologies and basic system performance analysis.  TCP/IP, lans, wans, internetworking, and signals and communications media.
INFSCI1071:APPLICATIONS OF NETWORKS (replaced by INFSCI 1630, effective June 30, 2020):Second course in telecommunications and networks. Network architecture, protocols, performance, design, and analysis based on application needs, organizational requirements, user requirements, and performance objectives.
INFSCI1072:INTRODUCTION TO WIRELESS NETWORKS (replaced by INFSCI 1640, effective June 30, 2020):Introductory broad overview for students with a basic background in telecommunications.  Not for telecom majors.  Principles of wireless communications and how they differ from wired communications.  Fundamental concepts including: transmission and mitigation techniques (e.g., Modulation and coding, propagation, interference and antennas) for wireless systems, multiplexing techniques, wireless system architectures, mobility management, security, protocols and location technology.  Systems include: cellular phone networks (e.g., Cdma2000, umts), wireless local area networks (e.g., Ieee 802.11G), personal area networks (e.g., Bluetooth), fixed point broadband wireless (e.g., WiMAX) and satellite systems.
INFSCI1073:APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT FOR MOBILE DEVICES:Learn how to solve real-world problems and experience the satisfaction of seeing a project through from start to finish.  Gain hands-on experience working directly with clients and observe how senior leaders make difficult decisions. Build skills in requirements gathering, scope management and stakeholder management.  Strengthen project management and interpersonal skills by working in a team based setting under the guidance of faculty.  Performance will be evaluated and graded based on the overall project success and assessments from the client, faculty and student peer reviews.
INFSCI1074:COMPUTER SECURITY (replaced by INFSCI 1620, effective June 30, 2020):Overview of information security.  Principles of security including confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Operating systems and database security concepts.  Basic cryptography and network security concepts.  Secure software design and application security.  Evaluation standards, security management.  Social, legal and ethical issues.  Human factors in security.
INFSCI1075:NETWORK SECURITY (replaced by INFSCI 1600, effective June 30, 2020):Network security and cryptographic protocols. Network vulnerabilities, attacks on TCP/IP, network monitoring, security at the link, network and transport layers. Cryptography, e.g., Secret and public key schemes, message authentication codes and key management. Wlan security, ipsec, ssl, and vpns. E-mail security (pgp, s/mime); kerberos; x.509 Certificates; AAA and mobile IP; SNMP security; firewalls; filters and gateways.  Policies and implementation of firewall policies; stateful firewalls; firewall appliances. Network related physical security, risk management and disaster recovery/contingency planning issues and housekeeping procedures.
INFSCI1079:COMPUTER NETWORKING LABORATORY (replaced by INFSCI 1660, effective June 30, 2020):The objective of this lab-based course is to gain knowledge of fundamental computer networking issues through hands-on experiments with network equipment and services.  The sequence of labs start at the physical layer and progress up the protocol stack to the application layer.  Topics covered are signal generation and analysis at the physical layer, ethernet and wlan performance and management, ip address planning and management, ip router configuration including rip, ospf, bgp, mpls protocols, tcp connection control, stateful packet filtering, network monitoring and management, signaling protocols for voip services, and web-based services configuration.
INFSCI1081:TEAM-BASED CAPSTONE PROJECT (replaced by INFSCI 1740, effective June 30, 2020):Learn how to solve real-world problems and experience the satisfaction of seeing a project through from start to finish.  Gain hands-on experience working directly with clients and observe how senior leaders make difficult decisions. Build skills in requirements gathering, scope management and stakeholder management.  Strengthen project management and interpersonal skills by working in a team based setting under the guidance of faculty.  Performance will be evaluated and graded based on the overall project success and assessments from the client, faculty and student peer reviews
INFSCI1082:INFORMATION SCIENCE COOPERATIVE PROGRAM:
INFSCI1085:INTERNSHIP (replaced by INFSCI 1720, effective June 30, 2020):Supervised work in an information environment providing a frame of reference for understanding and an opportunity to apply the skills, methodologies, and theories presented in information science courses.
INFSCI1091:SPECIAL TOPICS: BEHAVIORAL:Advanced class focusing on current or specialized topic in behavioral area.
INFSCI1092:SPECIAL TOPICS: SYSTEMS (replaced by INFSCI 1399, effective June 30, 2020):Advanced class focusing on current or specialized topic in systems area.
INFSCI1399:SPECIAL TOPICS (replacing INFSCI 1092, effective June 30, 2020):Advanced class focusing on a current or specialized topic in Information Science
INFSCI1400:ANALYSIS OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS (replacing INFSCI 1024, effective June 30, 2020):This course provides state-of-the-art skills in requirements management and scope management, which is critical for successful IT projects. Topics include best practices in eliciting, documenting, verifying and modeling requirements. This is an active learning course where students develop an analysis model for a realistic IT project which can serve as a foundation for an analysis model that is suitable for inclusion in the student's IT portfolio.
INFSCI1420:USER-CENTERED DESIGN (replacing INFSCI 1052, effective June 30, 2020):Introduces principles and programming of interactive systems. Interaction techniques are surveyed and incorporated into the design of interfaces.
INFSCI1430:USER EXPERIENCE ENGINEERING:This course presents the fundamental principles of user experience (UX) engineering across three broad categories of designs and products - digital products, virtual worlds, and physical spaces. This course will cover a broad range of topics, including specifying, designing, and evaluating user experiences, understanding the role of user experience in the design of digital products, virtual environments, and physical spaces, and the roles of psychology, sociology, and psychometrics in user experience design.   This is an active learning course where students will be expected to read research papers, participate in class discussions, and work with external stakeholders.
INFSCI1440:SOCIAL COMPUTING:This course focuses on how social groups form and evolve, how members of these groups interact with each other, and how these groups are supported and augmented with computer systems. The course is interdisciplinary, drawing from the fields of computer science, psychology, and sociology. It covers key theories and technologies of social computing in terms of (1) computer systems supporting social behavior and (2) socially intelligent computing carried out by groups. Students will have a chance to explore social computing systems, get experience with social data analyses and focus on design, and evaluation of a social software as their final project for the course.
INFSCI1450:GAME DESIGN (replacing INFSCI 1060, effective June 30, 2020):Games have become ubiquitous in our modern world. In addition to entertainment, elements of games are present in everything from promotional advertisements to university classrooms. This course focuses on the exploration of game design in its many permutations. Join us as we critique and design all manner of entertainment and serious game. The class itself is designed as a multiplayer game experience to immerse and engage the student in game design on a fundamental level. One of the final goals of this class is for each student to have designed two separate games in their entirety. These games may be useful in the follow-up course, Immersive Media Technologies.
INFSCI1460:IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT (replacing INFSCI 1027, effective June 30, 2020):Project management is the discipline to manage and oversee a project from inception to completion. As more and more organizations look to launch highly competitive and disruptive technologies in the marketplace, it's critical that you can apply these methodologies, tools, and techniques to successfully manage an IT project to completion. In this course, you will acquire a working knowledge of the two more widely used project management methodologies (Agile and Waterfall) and gain hands-on experience by working through real world case studies.
INFSCI1470:IMMERSIVE MEDIA TECHNOLOGIES (replacing INFSCI 1061, effective June 30, 2020):This course will introduce students to the design and development of immersive media technologies, such as interactive narratives,  digital games, augmented/mixed reality and virtual reality experiences. Students will develop skills in user experience design, user interface design, storytelling, and animation, as well as gain technical knowledge required to program, optimize, and deploy media experiences for multiple platforms/devices.
INFSCI1499:SPECIAL TOPICS: HUMAN-CENTERED:Advanced class focusing on a current or specialized topic in the Human Centered Computing and Systems areas in Information Science.
INFSCI1500:DATABASE MGMT CONCEPTS & APPS (replacing INFSCI 1023, effective June 30, 2020):This course introduces students to the practical methodologies of data design, management, storage, and retrieval in the context of relational database management systems. This course covers fundamental concepts of effective database development process, including entity-relationship model, normalization, structured query language (SQL), basics of transaction management and physical database design.
INFSCI1520:INFORMATION VISUALIZATION:Visualization is a way to explore, present, and express meaning in data, so there is no visualization without data. This course aims to investigate what data presents and how to present data, which requires both data analytics and information design knowledge.  In this course, we will introduce concepts, methods and procedures of data visualization, with emphasis on the creative process of organizing, visualizing, communicating and interacting information. The course is designed to help students develop critical thinking for evaluating visualization system and practical skills in solving visualization problems.
INFSCI1525:CURATING DIGITAL DATA:"Data curation" is the management and preservation of data, information and systems for the long-term. While ensuring the longevity of information was once the role of librarians and archivists, long-term access and persistence of digital information is dependent on intentional planning and ongoing stewardship by information creators and managers. In the BSIS program, we encounter aspects of data curation in a number of courses. This course will complement and round out your skills and understandings of data curation by exploring fundamental principles, processes, and practices for curating information during its active use and for the long-term. We will address the technical, social, ethical, and legal issues associated with curation of digital data in three sectors: government, corporate, and academic. Finally, we will apply our data curation fundamentals to specific information object types.
INFSCI1530:DATA MINING (replacing INFSCI 1040, effective June 30, 2020):The ability to collect, store and process large amounts of detailed data in a variety of fields has led to a surge in the use of data in various decision-making tasks, ranging from governmental policy-making to drafting players in sports. Data literacy is thus important and In this first introductory course, we will focus on shifting the traditional mode of deterministic (yes/no) thinking to probabilistic thinking. We will see concepts from applied probability and statistics, while we will also explore a variety of data analysis methods including linear regression, matrix factorization, and network analysis.
INFSCI1540:DATA ENGINEERING:The objective of this course is to introduce major data engineering concepts and techniques. Data engineering utilizes methods of business intelligence and advanced data processing to implement scalable and distributed data ecosystems. Data engineers are focused on building tools, infrastructures, frameworks, and services that support large-scale data analytics. Therefore, data engineering forms a highly acclaimed discipline at the cutting edges of data science and software engineering. The course introduces and organizes data engineering aspects around the data processing pipeline. It covers key concepts of data acquisition, data storage and retrieval, data modeling, data warehousing, data integration, data fusion, as well as distributed and scalable data management.
INFSCI1550:SPATIAL INFORMATION (replacing INFSCI 1068, effective June 30, 2020):Introduction to geographic information system (GIS) concept and technology including spatial data sources, spatial data models and structures, spatial database management, map projection systems, geocoding and Georeferencing, spatial analysis, spatial data visualization (maps), GIS applications (e.g., Address-location finding, navigation, routing), and commercial GIS software packages.
INFSCI1560:INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL:Problems and techniques related to storing and accessing unstructured information with an emphasis on textual information. Overview of several approaches to information access with a primary focus on search-based information access. Covers automated retrieval system design, content analysis, retrieval models, result presentation, and system evaluation. Examines applications of retrieval techniques on the web, in multimedia and multilingual environments, and in-text classification and event tracking.
INFSCI1570:NETWORK AND WEB DATA TECHNOLOGIES:This course is about the core technologies and standards for web based distributed systems that we use to build Web applications. It includes an overview of the standardization process and the standards organizations. The course will introduce client and server-side technologies for the web with emphasis on front-end technologies such as HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, responsive design etc. and a set of back-end technologies and APIs.
INFSCI1599:SPECIAL TOPICS: DATA AND INFORMATION:Advanced class focusing on a current or specialized topic in the Data and Information areas in Information Science.
INFSCI1600:SECURITY AND PRIVACY (replacing INFSCI 1075, effective June 30, 2020):The objective of this course is to provide an understanding of information security ranging from threats, vulnerabilities, and attacks to protection, detection, and response. Students will develop the ability to converse with the terminology used in information security (e.g., confidentiality, authentication, integrity, availability). The course will cover the basics of security issues in operating systems, applications, and databases. This is followed by an examination of the architecture and generalized protocol/operational aspects of information networks to identify how security attacks (e.g., denial of service) are possible. Basics of security mechanisms such as cryptography, firewalls, and secure protocols for networks will be presented. The course will include a discussion of privacy and human factors in security (e.g., usable security).
INFSCI1620:ADVANCED SECURITY AND PRIVACY (replacing INFSCI 1074, effective June 30, 2020):Network security and cryptographic protocols. Network vulnerabilities, attacks on TCP/IP, network monitoring, security at the link, network and transport layers. Cryptography, e.g., Secret and public key schemes, message authentication codes and key management. WLAN security, IPsec, SSL, and VPNs. E-mail security (PGP, s/mime); Kerberos; x.509 Certificates; AAA and mobile IP; SNMP security; firewalls; filters and gateways. Policies and implementation of firewall policies; stateful firewalls; firewall appliances. Network related physical security, risk management, and disaster recovery/contingency planning issues and housekeeping procedures.
INFSCI1630:COMMUNICATION NETWORKS (replacing INFSCI 1071, effective June 30, 2020):The focus of this course is on the Internet; the most widely-used communication network. The course provides an introduction to data communications and networking, particularly examining elements of today's Internet. Students will learn how applications are supported and communicated through services offered by the Internet. Covers features of transport layer protocols, routing protocols, and medium access protocols. Also, the course will explore physical layer technologies and provide a basic introduction to multimedia networking and network management concepts.
INFSCI1640:WIRELESS NETWORKS (replacing INFSCI 1072, effective June 30, 2020):The objective of this course is to provide an understanding of various wireless networking technologies ranging from cellular networks to wireless personal area networks and IoT, including how they differ from wired networks (e.g., signal transmission, interference, medium access, mobility, etc.). Emphasis is on most recent generations of wireless networks. The course will cover the architecture and generalized protocol/operational aspects of cellular networks or wireless wide area networks, wireless local area networks, and wireless personal area networks. Deployment issues, mobility, and radio resource management will be discussed. Physical layer concepts are provided as necessary. Localization and security issues in wireless networks will also be covered.
INFSCI1650:MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATIONS:This course will provide students with an introduction to multimedia communications (audio, video, immersive) over data communication networks. It will explore multimedia applications and encoding, quality assessment, systems for transmission and distribution of multimedia, performance, challenges to building networks for content delivery, and designing them for future types of content that might result from advances in virtual reality, robotic manipulation, and immersive experiences.
INFSCI1660:COMPUTER NETWORKING LAB (replacing INFSCI 1079, effective June 30, 2020):The objective of this lab-based course is to gain knowledge of fundamental computer networking issues through hands-on experiments with network equipment and services. The sequence of labs start at the physical layer and progress up the protocol stack to the application layer. Topics covered are signal generation and analysis at the physical layer, ethernet and WLAN performance and management, IP address planning and management, IP router configuration including rip, OSPF, BGP, Mpls protocols, TCP connection control, stateful packet filtering, network monitoring and management, signaling protocols for VoIP services, and web-based services configuration.
INFSCI1670:SECURITY MANAGEMENT AND COMPUTER FORENSICS:This course covers issues related to administration and management of security of enterprise information systems and networks. Topics include intrusion detection systems, vulnerability analysis, anomaly detection, computer forensics, application logging, auditing and data management, risk management, contingency planning and incident handling, cyber defense/operations, and security program management and lifecyle. The course will study in detail principles and tools related to these topics. The course will also cover security standards, evaluation, accreditation and certification process; security planning, compliance issues ethical and legal issues in information; privacy, traceability and cyber-evidence.
INFSCI1690:CLOUD COMPUTING:This course provides an overview of the concepts and design principles behind existing cloud solutions. Topics include large scale data processing techniques such as mapreduce/hadoop and its related ecosystem, overview of virtualized commercial cloud models, system virtualization, hypervisors and virtualized platforms. Design of cloud storage systems such as key-value stores and geographically distributed storage systems. Introduction to security and privacy issues in cloud computing, issues of data and execution privacy in modern commercial cloud services.
INFSCI1699:SPECIAL TOPICS: NETWORKS AND SECURITY:Advanced class focusing on a current or specialized topic in the networks and security areas in Information Science.
INFSCI1700:DATA-DRIVEN COMMUNICATION:Digital transformation is disrupting traditional business models, enabling organizations to not only increase client value, but develop entirely new business models that drive exponential growth and deliver a significant competitive advantage. Harnessing this technology requires the ability to be better problem solvers and transform data into answers. In this course, students will build upon their problem solving, data analytics, and communication skills. They will learn how to translate complex technical topics into actionable insights, leverage storytelling to influence and persuade, and visualize data for impact. In summary, students will use advanced information economics, data, their knowledge of human-centered systems, and include digital transformation in organizations and communities for ideation and communication to diverse audiences.   This course may serve as a capstone for students in the Information Science major.
INFSCI1710:DIRECTED RESEARCH:This course serves as one option to meet the Capstone class/experience required for the BSIS program. This will be a research-intensive experience guided directly by a SCI faculty member. The tasks will include development of a research proposal including literature review, research questions/problems, methodologies, time line, milestones, and implementation of a methodology. This will result in a quantitative or qualitative experiment ending with the student conducting and writing up an analysis of the results and associated conclusions.
INFSCI1720:INTERNSHIP (replacing INFSCI 1085, effective June 30, 2020):Supervised work in an information environment providing a frame of reference for understanding and an opportunity to apply the skills, methodologies, and theories presented in information science courses.
INFSCI1730:INDEPENDENT STUDY (replacing INFSCI 1080, effective June 30, 2020):Development of readings, research, and practical implementation of a system or other forms of study as arranged between student and instructor.
INFSCI1740:TEAM-BASED CAPSTONE PROJECT (replacing INFSCI 1081, effective June 30, 2020):Learn how to solve real-world problems and experience the satisfaction of seeing a project through from start to finish. Gain hands-on experience working directly with clients and observe how senior leaders make difficult decisions. Build skills in requirements gathering, scope management and stakeholder management. Strengthen project management and interpersonal skills by working in a team-based setting under the guidance of faculty. Performance will be evaluated and graded based on the overall project success and assessments from the client, faculty and student peer reviews.
INFSCI2000:INTRODUCTION TO INFORMATION SCIENCE:Overview of the history, academic roots, conceptual structure, and methodology of information science.  Explores principles and concepts that underlie information processing, including information theory, models of information storage and retrieval, and human cognition. Basic processes of information systems analysis, design and development.
INFSCI2020:MATHEMATICAL FOUNDATIONS FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE:Basic concepts of theoretical mathematics needed to understand theoretical work in information science with the exception of probability and statistics; in particular, concepts from set theory, graph theory, combinatorics, logic, abstract algebra, topology, and mathematical analysis.
INFSCI2040:RESEARCH DESIGN:Beginning research design with emphasis on the basic process of inquiry. Identifying and articulating research problems, determining and describing procedures for conducting research, designing data collecting procedures, formulating testable hypotheses, interpreting and drawing conclusions from data analysis, and reporting research findings and implications.
INFSCI2120:INFORMATION AND CODING THEORY:Includes measures of information, information sources, joint and conditional uncertainty, noiseless and deterministic channels, reliable messages through unreliable channels, channel capacities, properties of codes, minimal codes, and error-detecting and error-correcting codes.  Examines entropy as a measure of semantic content.
INFSCI2125:NETWORK SCIENCE & ANALYSIS:
INFSCI2130:DECISION ANALYSIS AND DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS:Introduction to decision analysis with elements of human cognition under uncertainty, including structuring decision problems and developing creative decision options, quantifying uncertainty and preferences, and combining uncertainty and preferences to arrive at optimal decisions. Foundations needed for applying the methods of decision analysis in decision support systems. Note: can also be used to fulfill distribution requirement in cognitive science area.
INFSCI2135:PROBABILISTIC METHODS:This seminar provides an introduction to computational approaches for probabilistic modeling and inference. A particular focus is placed on Bayesian networks, although other probabilistic models also will be studied. Medical applications are emphasized, however, the principles are general and no medical knowledge is needed to take the course.  The course does not require knowledge of a computer programming language. An understanding of basic probability theory would be helpful, but is not required.
INFSCI2140:INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL:Problems and techniques related to storing and accessing unstructured information with an emphasis on textual information. Overview of several approaches to information access with a primary focus on search-based information access. Covers automated retrieval system design, content analysis, retrieval models, result presentation, and system evaluation.  Examines applications of retrieval techniques on the web, in multimedia and multilingual environments, and in text classification and event tracking.
INFSCI2149:INTRODUCTION TO INFORMATION SECURITY:Introductory information security and privacy course for non-SCI students enrolled in the Graduate Certificate Program in Cybersecurity, Policy and Law. Covers fundamental issues and first principles of security and information assurance, including security policies, models and mechanisms related to confidentiality, integrity, authentication, identification, and availability issues related to information and information systems. The course will introduce students to risk management, security assurance, secure design principles, organizational security policy, legal and ethical issues in security, and standards and methodologies for security evaluation and certification.
INFSCI2150:INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY:Fundamental issues and first principles of security and information assurance. Security policies, models and mechanisms related to confidentiality, integrity, authentication, identification, and availability issues related to information and information systems. Basics of cryptography such as key management and digital signatures, etc. And network security such as PKI, IPsec, intrusion detection and prevention. Risk management, security assurance and secure design principles. Issues such as organizational security policy, legal and ethical issues in security, standards and methodologies for security evaluation and certification.
INFSCI2160:DATA MINING:Introduction to data mining techniques, including data preprocessing, data mining primitives, association rules, decision trees, cluster analysis, classification and machine learning, data visualization, and data warehousing. Detailed applications from a wide variety of domains.
INFSCI2170:CRYPTOGRAPHY:Principles of number theory, cryptographic algorithms and cryptanalysis.  Steganography, block and stream ciphers, secret key encryption (DES, res, re-n), primes, random numbers, factoring, and discrete logarithms. Public key encryption (RSA, Diffie-Helman, elliptical curve cryptography, n'tru); key management, hash functions (md5, sha-1, ripemd-160, HMAC), digital signatures, certificates and authentication protocols. Cryptanalytic methods (known, chosen plaintext etc.) For secret and public key schemes (linear and differential cryptanalysis, pollard's rho method, number field sieve, etc.).
INFSCI2204:INTRODUCTION TO TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE:An English language support course for international students in SIS who are non-native speakers of English.  Introduces students' to strategies and skills for comprehension and production in academic English contexts. Also addresses issues of academic integrity and plagiarism.
INFSCI2205:TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE:An English language support course for international students in SIS who are non-native speakers of English.  Helps develop students' strategies and skills for comprehension and production in academic English contexts. Also addresses issues of academic integrity and plagiarism.
INFSCI2230:CYBERCRIME:
INFSCI2300:HUMAN INFORMATION PROCESSING:Introduction to research and theory in human cognition, including perception, attention, pattern recognition, memory, representation of knowledge, language, problem solving, reasoning, and decision making, with emphasis on modeling human cognition and implications for user interface design and design of intelligent systems.
INFSCI2350:HUMAN FACTORS IN SYSTEMS:Introduces principles for analysis of human performance in human-machine systems. Emphasis on principles of human factors as applied to the design of systems other than the graphical user interface (GUI) that is covered in interactive systems INFSCI 2470.
INFSCI2410:INTRODUCTION TO NEURAL NETWORKS:Introduces mathematical and computer techniques used in constructing models of information processing by parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks; principles of input-output functions and adaptation (learning) functions in single units and in networks; examines the relation between PDP networks, neurobiology, artificial intelligence, and cognition.
INFSCI2415:INFORMATION VISUALIZATION:This course focuses on the visual design, structure, and organization of information as applied to library and information environments and web site design.  Topics include visualization literacy, usability research, theories of visual perception and cognition, visualization models, visual analytics, and data graphics. The emphasis is on user and task-centered design for developing and evaluating visualization-based tools for various types of data.  Practical work with visualization technologies will be included.
INFSCI2420:INTRODUCTION NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING:Overview of computational approaches to natural language processing. Issues in syntax, semantics, and pragmatics, as well as overall system architectures.
INFSCI2430:SOCIAL COMPUTING:Introduction to key theories and technologies of social computing.  Reviews major types of social computing systems.  Several social computing systems are explored and used throughout the course.  Final group project focuses on designing and implementing a social web system.
INFSCI2440:ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE:With the focus on the machine intelligence technologies around processing, representing, modeling, and learning from large quantity of data in the current web context, this course serves as a broad introduction to students of the theories, algorithms and applications of modern Artificial Intelligence (AI). Taking a data science oriented perspective, this course aims to help students to develop a broad theoretical knowledge and practical experience in AI. With the understanding that modern AI is actually a discipline of theories and techniques around the idea of data driven model-based machine intelligence, this course consists of four broad modules: 1) representation of knowledge, 2) uncertainty-based modeling and reasoning, 3) improvements with machine learning, and 4) communication with natural language processing, all of which are necessary components for an intelligent agent to engage intelligently with other agents or people in the real world.   The goal of this course is to prepare students to work creatively and productively in current data-driven and intelligence-rich environment, and it is ideal for students who would like to be introduced to the techniques of modern AI. 
INFSCI2460:SPATIAL REASONING FOR GIS:Fundamental issues in qualitative spatial reasoning, spatial languages, and spatial decision-making.  Applications of spatial reasoning including problems of navigation and interface issues for GIS.
INFSCI2470:INTERACTIVE SYSTEM DESIGN:The environments that can or should be provided for interactive use of computers.  Necessary hardware, software, and behavioral components of an interactive system; data structure considerations for various types of interactive applications; operating system fundamentals, functions, and characteristics.  Emphasis on interactive operating systems, human machine dialogues, interactive graphics, programming languages, and application(s) design.
INFSCI2480:ADAPTIVE INFORMATION SYSTEMS (replaced by ISSP 2280, effective January 1, 2018):Introduces key principles of adaptive information systems and modern techniques for user modeling and personalization. Covers the construction of user models and user profiles. Examines the use of various personalization techniques such as adaptive search, recommendation, and navigation support. Reviews major types of adaptive information systems and explores important application areas.
INFSCI2500:DATA STRUCTURES:Theory and application of data structures. Data and file structures and their appropriateness to various applications.
INFSCI2510:INFORMATION SYSTEMS ANALYSIS AND DESIGN:The focus of this course is on studies of specifications of the information systems development process. The course covers fundamental topics on two main stages of information systems development life cycle: analysis, and design. Students will become familiar in techniques to investigate, collect, organize, and structure requirements for an information system as well as understanding how to design different component of the information system to satisfy the requirements. The course hands-on experiences such as working directly with real-world clients to address an information need challenge.  Students are evaluated through regular assignments, quizzes, and a course project
INFSCI2511:INFORMATION SYSTEMS DESIGN:Object-oriented design best practices; principles of system architecture; design patterns; requirements traceability; construction of uml-compliant models (class, sequence, communication and package diagrams); refactoring; iterative development of system prototype. Requires knowledge of fundamental of programming concepts including abstract classes, interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism, and message passing.
INFSCI2540:SOFTWARE ENGINEERING:Critical analysis of leading iterative software development processes; TSP/PSP, unified process, extreme programming and related agile processes; enterprise management and control of software projects (CMM and COBIT); configuration and change management; quality assurance and testing.
INFSCI2545:SOFTWARE QUALITY ASSURANCE:
INFSCI2550:CLIENT-SERVER SYSTEMS:Analysis and design of distributed systems. Emphasis on distributed applications and various protocols used in such applications.  Explores algorithms for various iterative and concurrent server designs as well as the design of application level protocols. Includes various languages and operating systems.
INFSCI2560:NETWORK AND WEB DATA TECHNOLOGIES:Covers core technologies and standards for distributed systems, especially web-based distributed systems. Includes an overview of the standardization process and the standards organizations. Looks at network and data standards with significant attention to HTML, XML, HTTP, URL and other web technologies including APIS to programming with them. Topics covered include: Web and Restful protocols (HTTP, COAP), Publish-Subscribe protocols (MQTT), Web services (SOAP, etc.), and Web programming with CSS, JS, and HTML5.
INFSCI2591:ALGORITHM DESIGN:Fundamentals of algorithm design including greedy algorithms, divide-and-conquer algorithms, dynamic programming, heuristics and approximate algorithms, parallel and distributed algorithms, multi-dimensional data structures, time complexity of algorithms, and development of programs from algorithms.
INFSCI2595:MACHINE LEARNING:Introduction to machine learning, includes algorithms of supervised and unsupervised machine learning techniques, designing a machine learning system, bias-variance tradeoffs, evaluation metrics; Parametric and non-parametric algorithms for regression and classification, k-nearest-neighbor estimation, decision trees, discriminant analysis, neural networks, deep learning, kernels, support vector machines, ensemble methods, regularization techniques;  Dimensionality reduction, principle component analysis, LDA, t-SNE;  Clustering methods such as k-means, hierarchical clustering, spectral clustering, DBSCAN; Mathematical foundations including linear algebra, probability theory, statistical tests, statistical learning theory; Best practices and application to real-world problems.
INFSCI2620:DEVELOPING SECURE SYSTEMS:Design and implementation of secure systems. Principles and practice of trustworthy computing, secure and high assurance software development process and lifecycle models. Secure software design using UMLSEC, secure design of operating systems and network services, database and applications. Secure webs services, cots-based and service-oriented systems. Software assurance tools and techniques such as code analysis and testing, evaluation and certification of software. Secure programming techniques.
INFSCI2621:SECURITY MANAGEMENT AND COMPUTER FORENSICS:Administration and management of security of enterprise information systems and networks. Principles and tools related to intrusion detection systems, vulnerability analysis, anomaly detection, computer forensics, application logging, auditing and data management, risk management, contingency planning and incident handling, digital immune systems, and alarms and responses. Security standards, evaluation and certification process; security planning, ethical and legal issues in information; privacy, traceability and cyber-evidence.
INFSCI2625:CYBERSECURITY AND PRIVACY REGULATION:
INFSCI2629:CAPSTONE IN SECURITY:Integrative class for master's students in their final semester of the sais track.  Combination of business and technical case studies and group projects.  Case studies focus on business/economics aspects of providing information assurance and how this service impacts technology.  Group projects involve design and development of a prototype secure and survivable information system including application development, system deployment, system optimization and system economics.
INFSCI2710:DATABASE MANAGEMENT:Basic graduate course on database systems. Centralized relational database systems with emphasis on database design, implementation, and administration. Comprehensive coverage of SQL, data modeling, normalization, storage management, transaction management, and query evaluation. Students will develop practical skills in building and maintaining realistic medium-scale database systems.  Also covers more advanced topics including data warehousing and OLAP.
INFSCI2711:ADVANCED TOPICS IN DATABASE MANAGEMENT:Advanced graduate course on database systems. Key issues that typically arise in the context of large-scale enterprise database management in heterogeneous wide-area environments including distributed and non-relational database systems, networK-centric data management, web-based information systems, heterogeneous databases, information integration, and wireless data management.
INFSCI2725:DATA ANALYTICS:Introduction to fundamental technologies underlying distributed storage and efficient analysis of very large amounts of data.  An overview of approaches to extracting information and knowledge from data, verification, testing, and presentation of results.
INFSCI2730:E-BUSINESS:Conceptualization of e-business in the context of markets, business practices, and information theory.  Implementation of e-business websites and services via various programming languages.  Examines various models for online consumer systems, business-to-business systems, and enterprise computing--e.g., Supply chain models.  Covers related technologies in document processing, telecommunications, and security.
INFSCI2731:SECURITY IN E-COMMERCE:Covers the technology, concepts, issues and principles that are important in the design and implementation of secure e-commerce systems. Examines technology for protecting electronic commerce. It will include discussion of basic security principles, as well as the issues, policy and standards particular to e-commerce applications.
INFSCI2739:WEB SERVICES AND DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING:Looks at advanced techniques to client server computing.  Covers design techniques necessary for organizing very large web sites. Integrates the knowledge and skills from e-business and web technologies to develop a functioning distributed application using web services, RMI, RSS, AJAX, etc.
INFSCI2750:CLOUD COMPUTING:This course provides an overview of the concepts and design principles behind existing cloud solutions. Topics include large scale data processing techniques such as mapreduce/hadoop and its related ecosystem, overview of virtualized commercial cloud models, system virtualization, hypervisors and virtualized platforms.  Design of cloud storage systems such as key-value stores and geographically distributed storage systems.  Introduction to security and privacy issues in cloud computing, issues of data and execution privacy in modern commercial cloud services.
INFSCI2780:INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS:Computer graphics, point plotting techniques, line drawing display, clipping and windowing, display lines, geometric models, picture structure, graphic input devices and techniques, event handling, raster graphics, solid area scan conversion, three-dimensional graphics, shading, and user-interface design related to the associated behavioral factors in INFSCI 2300 and INFSCI 2350.
INFSCI2801:GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS (GIS):Introduction to geographic information system (GIS) concepts and technology including spatial data sources, spatial data models and structures, spatial database management, map projection systems, geocoding and Georeferencing, spatial analysis, spatial data visualization (maps), GIS applications (e.g., Address-location finding, navigation, routing), and commercial GIS software packages.
INFSCI2802:LOCATION-BASED SERVICES:Internet GIS, distributed geo-processing on the internet, mobile GIS, location-based services, navigation systems and services, social networking, and a selection of emerging applications possible through mobile GIS and location-based services.
INFSCI2809:SPATIAL DATA ANALYTICS:Geospatial data collection, geospatial data structures and indexing, geospatial analysis, data quality, geospatial data structures and algorithms for surfaces, spatiotemporal databases, and digital terrain modeling.
INFSCI2821:FOUNDATIONS OF CLINICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH INFORMATICS:A survey of fundamental concepts and activities on information technology applied to health care. Topics include computer-based medical records, knowledge-based systems, telehealth, decision theory and decision support, human-computer interfaces, systems integration, the digital library, bioinformatics, and educational applications.  Department-specific applications such as pathology, radiology, psychiatry and intensive care are also discussed.
INFSCI2915:SPECIAL TOPICS: FOUNDATIONS:
INFSCI2935:SPECIAL TOPICS: COGNITIVE:An independent study intended to cover advanced material outside of or beyond the scope of current course offerings, specifically within the Cognitive Science or Cognitive Systems academic area.
INFSCI2950:INDEPENDENT STUDY: SYSTEMS:
INFSCI2955:SPECIAL TOPICS: SYSTEMS:
INFSCI2960:STUDY ABROAD:
INFSCI2965:SEMINARS: SPECIAL TOPICS:Analysis of journal articles, books, and conference proceedings involving issues in information science. Techniques for preparing for the preliminary and comprehensive examinations.
INFSCI2970:INDEPENDENT STUDY:Independent studies are intended to cover advanced material outside of or beyond the scope of current course offerings.
INFSCI2980:PRACTICUM:For students who desire experience in applying the knowledge and skills acquired in their course work and laboratory sessions. Students are responsible for arranging a practicum with a business or organization.
INFSCI2982:INFORMATION SCIENCE COOPERATIVE PROGRAM:
INFSCI2995:THESIS:The thesis is a report of original, theoretical, or laboratory work suitable for publication.
INFSCI3005:INTRODUCTION TO THE DOCTORAL PROGRAM:An introduction to the purpose and nature of doctoral studies in information science, theories and processes in scholarly research and the current state of research in the discipline.  Graduate faculty in the program will present and discuss their current interests with students.
INFSCI3150:SEMINARS: SPECIAL TOPICS:Analysis of journal articles, books, and conference proceedings involving issues in information science. Techniques for preparing for the preliminary and comprehensive examinations.
INFSCI3250:RESEARCH SEMINAR:
INFSCI3350:DOCTORAL SEMINAR:
INFSCI3990:DISSERTATION:
