ISSP2000:MS RESEARCH:Research and thesis MA degree.
ISSP2015:FOUNDATIONS OF CLINICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH INFORMATICS:A survey of fundamental concepts and activities on information technology applied to health care. Topics include computer-based medical records, knowledge-based systems, telehealth, decision theory and decision support, human-computer interfaces, systems integration, the digital library, bioinformatics, and educational applications.  Department-specific applications such as pathology, radiology, psychiatry and intensive care are also discussed.
ISSP2016:FOUNDATIONS OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS 1:This course serves as an introduction to core methods and topics in biomedical informatics using the context of the Learning Health System (LHS). A LHS combines data and information managements, discovery, and application of discoveries to clinical and population health. Discussion of the challenges associated with the construction of a LHS will be used to contextualize and motivate content to be covered in the course (people, data and knowledge, and evaluation).
ISSP2017:FOUNDATIONS OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS 2:This course serves as an introduction to core methods and topics in biomedical informatics using the context of the Learning Health System (LHS). A LHS combines data and information managements, discovery, and application of discoveries to clinical and population health. Discussion of the challenges associated with the construction of a LHS will be used to contextualize and motivate content to be covered in the course (challenges and analysis and interpretation to create knowledge).
ISSP2020:TOPICS IN INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS:This course is an immigration course for the intelligent systems students.
ISSP2030:ADVANCED TOPICS IN INTELLGENT SYSTEMS:This course is a continuance of ISSP 2020.  It is an immigration course for the intelligent systems students.  Students continue with this course by carrying out their projects developed in ISSP 2020 and giving presentations presenting their results.
ISSP2070:PROBABILISTIC METHODS:This seminar provides an introduction to computational approaches for probabilistic modeling and inference. A particular focus is placed on Bayesian networks, although other probabilistic models also will be studied. Medical applications are emphasized, however, the principles are general and no medical knowledge is needed to take the course.  The course does not require knowledge of a computer programming language. An understanding of basic probability theory would be helpful, but is not required.
ISSP2081:FOUNDATIONS OF BIOINFORMATICS:Provides an introduction to selected topics of bioinformatics also known as computational biology. In this course, the difficult computational problems involving different types of biological information are identified using case studies from current literature.  Emphasis is on genomic aspects of computational biology with some overview of proteomics and structural aspects.  The course is structured as a seminar course intending to draw students into participating in discussions related to both problems and existing solutions.
ISSP2083:BIOMDCL INFORMATICS JOURNAL CLUB:This course meets once each week for one hour.  The research being presented will be taken from recent journal papers.
ISSP2090:PRACTICUM IN ADV BIOMEDICAL IT:This course is designed for people who want a practicum experience in working with advanced information technology in the center for biomedical informatics.
ISSP2130:INFORMATION STORAGE & RETRIEVAL:Problems and techniques related to storing and accessing unstructured information with an emphasis on textual information. Overview of several approaches to information access with a primary focus on search-based information access. Covers automated retrieval system design, content analysis, retrieval models, result presentation, and system evaluation.  Examines applications of retrieval techniques on the web, in multimedia and multilingual environments, and in text classification and event tracking.
ISSP2160:FOUNDTNS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLGNC:The principal topics of AI are:  representation knowledge, reasoning and problem solving, knowledge acquisition and machine learning, robotics, and natural language understanding.  This course surveys these areas in order to provide an understanding of artificial intelligence methods and research problems.  Specific topics include:  action and object-centered representations, the search paradigm, planning and constraint satisfaction, qualitative reasoning, analogical reasoning, default reasoning, induction, other methods of learning, and knowledge engineering.
ISSP2170:MACHINE LEARNING:This course will give an overview of many techniques and algorithms in machine learning, beginning with topics such as linear and logistic regression, multi-layer neural networks and ending up with more recent topics such as boosting and support vector machines.  The basic ideas and intuition behind modern machine learning methods, as well as, a more formal understanding of how and why they work will be covered.  Students will have an opportunity to experiment with various machine learning techniques or apply them to a selected problem or domain in the context of a term project.
ISSP2180:COMPUTER VISION:
ISSP2221:HUMAN INFORMATION PROCESSING:Introduction to research and theory in human cognition, including perception, attention, pattern recognition, memory, representation of knowledge, language, problem solving, reasoning, and decision making, with implications for user interface design.
ISSP2230:INTRO NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCSSNG:Overview of computational approaches to natural language processing. Issues in syntax, semantics, and pragmatics, as well as overall systems architectures.
ISSP2240:DECISION ANAL & DECISN SUPRT SYS:Rationality and rational behavior; uncertainty, probability, decision making.  Psychology of decision making.  Decision theory and decision analysis, structuring decision problems, elicitation of probabilities and utilities.  Conflicting objectives, multi-attribute decision theory.  Probabilistic methods in artificial intelligence.  Group and team decision making.  Decision support systems.
ISSP2280:ADAPTIVE INFORMATION SYSTEMS (replacing INFSCI 2480, effective January 1, 2018):Introduces key principles of adaptive information systems and modern techniques for user modeling and personalization. Covers the construction of user models and user profiles. Examines the use of various personalization techniques such as adaptive search, recommendation, and navigation support. Reviews major types of adaptive information systems and explores important application areas.
ISSP2430:SOCIAL COMPUTING:Introduction to key theories and technologies of social computing.  Reviews major types of social computing systems.  Several social computing systems are explored and used throughout the course.  Final group project focuses on designing and implementing a social web system.
ISSP2900:GRADUATE INTERNSHIP:A professional internship may be taken at any time during the course of graduate study.  Ph.D. students may take this course up to two times for credit, MS students may take it at most once.
ISSP2902:DIRECTED STUDY:Directed study.
ISSP2990:INDEPENDENT STUDY:Independent study.
ISSP3000:RESEARCH AND DISSERTATION PHD:Research and dissertation Ph.D.
ISSP3120:ADV TOPCS NATURAL LANG PROCSSNG:Natural language processing (NLP) is primarily concerned with creating computer programs that interact with human languages.  The objective of this course is to continue the studies of natural language processing (NLP), to explore selected topics among syntax, semantics, and pragmatics more deeply, and to discuss recent advances in (NLP).
ISSP3180:VISUAL LANGUAGES AND PROGRAMMING:This course will include fundamentals of formal language theory, iconic and symbolic representations, formal theory of iconic systems, icon operators and semantics, icon oriented system compiler for visual interface design, computer graphics and visual programming, issues in the design of visual programming systems, visual database systems, iconic indexing, and advanced topics.
ISSP3535:ADV TOPICS IN MACHINE LEARNING (replacing CS 3750, effective January 1, 2018):This course will survey advanced topics in machine learning, for example, inductive learning, reinforcement learning, and neural network learning.
ISSP3565:ADV TOPICS ARTIFICIAL INTELLGNC:This course will survey current topics in artificial intelligence.
