LIS2020:LIFECYCLES OF DATA AND INFORMATION:Using lifecycles of data and information as a grounding device for exploring the stages of data / information creation, description, storage, processing, management, preservation, sharing and reuse. Different lifecycle conceptualizations and a range of broad types of data and information from contexts including government data, corporate data, research data, social media data, archival records and citizen / personal data.
LIS2021:IDENTIFYING INFORMATION NEEDS OF KNOWLEDGE ORGANIZATIONS:Student teams focus on inquiry, through experiential learning, by identifying the information needs of the knowledge organization with which the team has been matched. Students are immersed in observing organizational behavior, collaborating in teams, and practicing soft skills necessary for communication and presentation. Team members gather information about the mission and culture of the organization by observing and listening to understand the context of the needs and challenges of the organization.
LIS2022:IMPLEMENTING SOLUTIONS FOR KNOWLEDGE ORGANIZATIONS:Building on skills students have developed in the pre-requisite course, student teams propose, develop, and implement prototypes of solutions to the information challenges of their knowledge organizations, focusing on implementing a viable product via rapid prototyping, tight feedback loops, and iterative development.
LIS2030:DATA AND INFORMATION IN SYSTEMS:Introduction to the concepts and technologies around data, code, metadata, and databases. Basic data types and file formats, code to manipulate data, the generation of metadata about data, and modeling databases to persistently store and structure data.
LIS2040:THE INFORMATION PROFESSIONAL IN THE COMMUNITY:This course will provide the context as well as a forum for students to discuss, understand and critique value systems, ethical frameworks and power structures embedded in information technologies, policies, systems and institutions. Emphasizing the importance of design, evaluation and engagement with communities through institutions and technologies ranging from public library systems to start ups, this course foregrounds the role of information professionals as active community members as well as the impact of the information professions on society.
LIS2110:RESEARCH METHODS IN LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE:Introduction to quantitative and qualitative methodologies and techniques used to conduct scholarly inquiry and service evaluation in library and information science. The design, planning and execution of research studies, from conceptualization and proposal writing to reporting and dissemination of the findings. Topics covered include research problems and questions; critical appraisal of research literature; data sources and sampling; research ethics and integrity; and data collection, analysis and interpretation.
LIS2140:CRITICAL LIBRARIANSHIP AND INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS:Critical librarianship refers to the movement within libraries to reflect upon the libraries' role in hegemonic structures, and to empower community members to disrupt these systems. Critical librarianship is concerned with issues of social justice, intersectionality, privilege, power, and systems of oppression. It is influenced by critical race theory (CRT), queer theory, disability theory, intersectional feminist theory, and critical pedagogy, among others. In this course, we will explore how critical librarianship can allow us to interrogate the systems and structures of the library in order to seek justice in our communities.
LIS2184:INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND "OPEN" MOVEMENTS:Concepts, legislation, and case law about censorship, freedom of access to information, privacy, copyright, professional liability, and other issues. Legal implications and safeguards.Origins, development, evolution, and pivotal role of copyright, fair use, and related issues within 21st century information, legal, policy, and economic framework. Key and emerging issues such as public domain, orphan works, section 108 exceptions for libraries and archives, licensing, recent statutory legislation and case law, and international copyright. Alternative protection schema, such as open access and creative commons.
LIS2188:OPEN GOVERNMENT DATA AND INFORMATION: CONCEPTS, STANDARDS, AND IMPACT:This course introduces participants to "open data," a term that is assigned to data that are free to access and use, that are available in machine-readable formats, that can be reused for any purpose, and that can be modified and shared by others. Globally, we see conversations about open data in research, with growing expectations and requirements to share research data, and in government, with policies and initiatives to expand public access to datasets. This course will focus onThis second category of open data: data produced and shared by government and civic organizations. This course will overview the historical precedents to the open data movement, survey current policies at different levels of government, and examine key concepts in the open data movement. While we will focus on drivers and initiatives in the United States, we will look at case studies that will provide us with a broader understanding of what is happening worldwide.  The focus of this course will be the core information skills and principles that underpin the success of open data initiatives and the mechanisms and standards in which governments at all levels in the United States are employing to publish data.
LIS2194:INFORMATION ETHICS:An examination of the intersection of information, technology, law, ethics, and policy in the digital age. Topics explored include privacy and surveillance; intellectual property; open access and open data; intellectual freedom and censorship; cybersecurity and information security; information accuracy and disinformation; cyberbullying and social media issues; and big data and data collection, sharing, and preservation.  Examination of issues related to ethical research conduct, access to information and digital divides as well as of ethical issues of a more general nature, such as integrity, equality, accountability, civil discourse, conflicts of interest, transparency, respect, dignity, and inclusion.
LIS2220:ARCHIVES AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT:Introduction to the essentials of records management in diverse organizational settings and in society. Organizational theory and how this relates to the history and development of record-keeping systems, electronic-records management and the advent of new technologies, and the place of records management in the information professions. Theoretical principles, methodologies, and practical administration of archives, records, and other information sources from print to oral contributing to the management of evidence and information necessary for organizations and society.
LIS2222:ARCHIVAL APPRAISAL, DESCRIPTION, AND ACCESS:This course is organized in three parts and will provide students with an introduction to the critical archival responsibilities of archival appraisal, description, and access. In the first section of the course, we will engage with archival appraisal. The archivist’s process in determining continuing value affects all other archival functions and impacts individual, organizational, and societal memory. Because of its significance for both archival work and society, appraisal has been the function most debated and subjected to experiments with new methodologies and theoretical models. This course will survey these models and, through an experiential project, delve deeply into one model in particular: documentation strategy. 1 Representing archival materials and providing access to them are core functions of the archival profession. Archivists do this with access systems that incorporate descriptive standards, data structures, controlled vocabularies, and increasingly, digital tools. The ways in which archives are described and represented influence the ways that users, such as historians, lawyers, and policymakers access, engage with, and understand the historical record. In the second section of this course, students will engage with archival descriptive standard and archival management systems, as well as debates and theories in the representation of information. Finally, we’ll consider strategies for raising the level of access for an archival collection, paying particular attention to the creation of digital exhibits.
LIS2231:COMMUNITY ARCHIVES:Communities of all kinds create records, but not all communities have traditionally been
LIS2322:RESOURCES AND SERVICES FOR CHILDREN:Critical evaluation of contemporary materials for use in a diverse society coupled with strategies to encourage the use of those materials by children (birth to age 14), their caregivers, and those who work with children. Survey of literature resources, services and programming that will encourage use. Books, discussions, and programming focus on equality, diversity, and inclusion within the framework suggested by ALSC.
LIS2323:RESOURCES AND SERVICES FOR YOUNG ADULTS:Critical assessment of resources (contemporary books, periodicals, video/film, games, and other digital formats, social media, web sites, tools, and apps) of interest and importance to young adults. Services and programming to encourage young adults and those who work with young adults to use these resources as both creators and consumers. Intellectual freedom issues and handling challenges to intellectual freedom.
LIS2324:HISTORY OF CHILDREN'S LITERATURE:Introduction to literature for children from the Anglo-Saxon period in England through the 19th century in England and America.  Emphasis on social and cultural history as reflected by literature for young people.
LIS2325:CURRICULUM RESOURCE AND SERVICE/SCHOOL LIBRARY:Integration of library media center collections and services into the curriculum.  The teaching roles of the school library media specialist.
LIS2326:STORYTELLING AND PROGRAMMING FOR YOUNG PEOPLE:Storytelling in library and education settings, including history, sources and selection, ethics, development of stories for telling, and performance techniques. Also includes planning, implementing, and evaluating storytime and children’s programming. 
LIS2329:LITERACIES AND LIBRARIES:This course examines literacy instruction, promotion, and support for individuals and families according to the responsibilities and vantage point of the professional librarian. Most of the coursework focuses on public library, academic library, and school library contexts, including library services and outreach for immigrant communities and special populations (the latter as defined by ALA). Assignments and discussions can be differentiated to more specifically include literacy instruction opportunities in other library and information settings. Instructional methods include reading discussions and reflections, problem-based learning, and performance tasks.
LIS2332:RESOURCES AND SERVICES FOR ADULTS:Survey of materials in a variety of formats of interest to and importance for adults, with an emphasis on popular resources, utilization of resources and program development.
LIS2407:METADATA:Principles and application of metadata for networked information resource organization, representation, retrieval, and interoperability using a variety of schemes and tools.
LIS2500:REFERENCE SOURCES AND SERVICES:Survey and application of tools (paper and electronic) needed to respond to questions in the changing reference environment.  Discussion of philosophies and theories underlying the practice of general reference.  Introduction to subject reference tools and services.
LIS2520:COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT:This course examines the principles and practices involved in the development and management of library collections in all types of libraries with emphasis on processes for identifying user needs and methods of selecting, acquiring, and evaluating materials in all formats.  This course is designed to provide students with an overview and understanding of the key functions of collection development and how these functions are integrated into the library workplace.
LIS2537:GOVERNMENT INFORMATION RESOURCES AND SERVICES:The American political environment and its impact on the availability and control of information emanating from the federal government.  Consideration and analysis of federal government materials in many formats.
LIS2585:HEALTH CONSUMER RESOURCES AND SERVICES:Collection development, reference, and educational services in the domain of consumer health resources in print, non-print, and electronic formats.  Identification of appropriate and accurate resources for consumer health and family education; policy issues in providing consumer and family health information in different settings; role of public media; and information and referral services to and from healthcare organizations, community agencies, and public libraries.
LIS2586:HEALTH SCIENCES RESOURCE AND SERVICES:Survey and evaluation of current sources, services, and trends related to information transfer in the health sciences, including medicine, nursing, pharmacy, dentistry, allied health, and veterinary science.  Materials and services appropriate to hospital, academic, and special libraries and information centers.
LIS2633:TECHNOLOGY IN THE LIVES OF CHILDREN AND YOUTH:Effects of media on young people, ages birth to 18 years; technology in everyday life--from toys to television; gaming and libraries; filtering; privacy and child safety; social networking/cyber-bullying; information/media literacy instruction in children's libraries (public); digital libraries for children; evaluation of digital resources for children; children's information behavior; interaction/interface design for young people; digital divide and social equity issues; global perspectives--technology in young people's lives around the world; future trends.
LIS2635:INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE:Practical and theoretical issues associated with information architecture in organizations.  User and organizational information needs and uses provide the basis for the conceptual design of web-based information systems and methods for analysis of stakeholder needs.  Designed for students wishing to enhance knowledge and skills related to web development, networks, and related concepts.
LIS2640:INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN:Instructional design is the systematic planning, creating, delivering, and evaluating instructional activities, products, environments, and modules/courses. Instructional design can be used in face-to-face or digital settings, but typically involves the use of educational technologies to enhance learning. For information professionals, instructional design is a growing area that enables new ways of connecting with and educating the community in a scalable and sustainable manner.
LIS2671:DIGITAL HUMANITIES:The goal of this course is to study, critique, and engage in the production of digital humanities scholarship. Students In this course will examine how information professionals, are situated withIn this area of academic inquiry as researchers, collaborators, and stewards. A range of digital humanities projects and digital tools, including the potential uses of each in library and archival settings, will be explored. This course is designed to be interactive, collaborative, and hands-on, incorporating aspects of academic seminars and studio-based workshops. Over the course of the semester, students will complete on their own individual projects, using digital tools to investigate research questions, periodically providing feedback to one another and reflecting on their own processes.
LIS2672:TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES FOR DIGITAL DATA:The goal of this course is to prepare students to work creatively and productively in digital environment. With the focus on the technologies and services around digital data in web information context, this course includes the development of theoretical knowledge and a practical understanding of digital data. Taking a social-technical perspective, this course will help students to develop a broad understanding of digital data rather than solely view digital data as technical achievements. The course consists of three broad modules: overview of digital data, technologies supporting the life cycle of digital data, and services built around digital data in current networked participatory daily and professional environments.
LIS2674:PRESERVING DIGITAL CULTURE:This course is divided into two sections. First, we delve into fundamental concepts and principles of digital preservation, studying what the Library of Congress's Trevor Owens terms "the theory and craft of digital preservation." We will consider standards, strategies, and tools that librarians, archivists, data curators, and information professionals broadly employ to ensure long term availability of digital materials. We will view digital preservation as a spectrum, using the National Digital Stewardship Alliance's (NDSA)"Levels of Digital Preservation" as a means to understand the ways that and the extent to which an organization may implement a preservation strategy. The NDSA Levels of Digital Preservation will serve as a framing for our discussions on file formats, storage and repositories, and file fixity. This first section of the course will involve lectures, discussion, and tool labs. In the second section, we will conduct a deep dive into complex digital object types and probe the strategies, systems, and ethical/legal issues surrounding the curation of this sample of materials: social media, websites, email, and software.
LIS2678:DATA SCIENCE FOR LIBRARY AND INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS:This course provides an introduction to data science for library and information professionals so they can participate in the emerging ecosystem around data science. This course will survey the landscape of data science and explore the role library and information professionals play in the evolving ecosystem of academic and industrial data science. In the course, students will learn the concepts, practices, and technologies of data science, both within academia and industry. It will provide students with hand-on experiences as well as critically exploring how librarians and information professionals can work and provide value in data-adjacent roles. Topics include data collection, cleaning, analysis, and visualization. There are no technical requirements for this course, but students should be prepared learn about and use various technical tools and ideas related to data science.
LIS2680:DATABASE DESIGN AND APPLICATIONS:Characteristics and concepts of database systems; database development process, including entity-relationship model, relational database models, normalization, structured query language (SQL), basics of transaction management and physical database design; current database technologies; and database applications in libraries and archives.
LIS2690:INFORMATION VISUALIZATION:This course focuses on the visual design, structure, and organization of information as applied to library and information environments and web site design.  Topics include visualization literacy, usability research, theories of visual perception and cognition, visualization models, visual analytics, and data graphics. The emphasis is on user and tasK-centered design for developing and evaluating visualization-based tools for various types of data.  Practical work with visualization technologies will be included.
LIS2700:MANAGING AND LEADING INFORMATION SERVICES:Managing and leading libraries and information services, one of the required core courses for the MLIS degree, focuses on key management theories and practice-based competencies in preparing students to be successful, service-oriented managers and leaders at all levels of diverse organizations. Students in this diversity and inclusion 'infused course will develop understanding of important skill sets and management and leadership domain areas, such as communication; strategic planning; core values and organizational culture; leading productive meetings; managing people, money, facilities, conflict, and change; legal and ethical issues; collaboration and partnerships; marketing and public relations; and professional development.  Guest speakers representing different types of libraries, as well as other institutional settings, will provide students with exposure to varied management and leadership styles and perspectives. Individual and group assignments, course content and case studies from non-profit and for-profit sectors, readings, podcasts, and in-class and online discussions will examine emerging trends, challenges, and opportunities for 21st century information center managers and leaders.
LIS2771:ACADEMIC LIBRARIES:The environment of academic libraries has changed radically since the 1990s with rapid advances in technology, developments in higher education and innovations in scholarly communication. The fundamental purpose of academic libraries has not changed, but traditional jobs have given way to self-service and professional roles have evolved into complex specialties. This course explores the challenges and problems facing academic libraries today, examining their resources, services, facilities and staffing, with reference to historical contexts and future directions. It will cover traditional and emerging practices in areas such as academic liaison, information literacy, research support, scholarly publishing, library assessment and career management.
LIS2774:SCHOOL LIBRARY MANAGEMENT:Planning, providing, managing, and assessing library programs for students and teachers in elementary and secondary school libraries, including access, budget, collection, instruction in information and digital literacy, infrastructure, and technology.
LIS2830:COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY FOR INFORMATION SERVICES:This course focuses on community engagement through communication and advocacy for information services. This includes building relationships with the community, seeking funding, and communicating the library's value. Students will learn how to best implement outreach and marketing strategies - branding, merchandising, displays, social media, and programming - to reach an intended audience. Ultimately, this course emphasizes communication and outreach to engage the community in the life of the library/museum/archive/etc. to create a mutually-beneficial relationship.
LIS2850:INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS ROLE IN TEACHING AND LEARNING:This course prepares participants for formal and informal educational roles as teachers, trainers, and facilitators of learning for all age groups found in school, public and academic libraries, as well as those found in archives, museums, and other information service organizations. Topics covered include: teaching and training fundamentals; information literacies; learning styles; instructional strategies; managing large and small instruction programs; and delivering online instruction.
LIS2901:INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH 1:Research on a topic selected by the student and carried out with scheduled reports to a faculty member.  Reports of the research may take various forms as determined in advance by the student and faculty member.  Faculty member's agreement to sponsor required.
LIS2902:INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH 2:Research on a topic selected by the student and carried out with scheduled reports to a faculty member.  Reports of the research may take various forms as determined in advance by the student and faculty member.  Faculty member's agreement to sponsor required.
LIS2921:FIELD EXPERIENCE:Supervised work in a library, archive or other information service environment that provides a frame of reference for understanding and an opportunity to apply the skills, methodologies, and theories presented in other courses. Agreement of faculty sponsor and field work supervisor required.
LIS2922:PRACTICUM IN SCHOOL LIBRARY MEDIA PROGRAMS:Experience in a school library, under the supervision of a cooperating teacher librarian working collaboratively with teachers, teaching information literacy skills, providing services to students and teachers, and managing resources. Weekly seminars, individual coaching sessions, and other online written requirements focus on identifying best practices and using case studies to problem solve.  Professional assessment; completion of SLCP portfolio of demonstrated competencies and electronic professional portfolio.
LIS2970:SPECIAL TOPICS:Courses offered on an experimental basis or as special topics seminars.
LIS2975:SEMINARS: SPECIAL TOPICS:
LIS3000:INTRODUCTION TO DOCTORAL STUDIES:An introduction to the requirements for the Ph.D. Degree in the department of library and information science and to the broader social and academic context of doctoral studies: its history and traditions, social role, methodologies, and outcomes of doctoral scholarship in library and information science.
LIS3300:SEMINARS IN RESEARCH METHODS:
LIS3600:SEMINAR INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY:
LIS3901:INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH 1:The course is used for individual research projects under the supervision of an ICDS faculty member.  Student and sponsoring faculty should identify and agree to course expectations and rubric prior to enrollment.
LIS3902:INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH 2:The course is used for individual research projects under the supervision of an ICDS faculty member.  Student and sponsoring faculty should identify and agree to course expectations and rubric prior to enrollment.
LIS3950:TEACHING PRACTICUM:Required teaching practicum in an appropriate LIS course related to area of interest. Learning activities include involvement in course design with instructor, class attendance, presentation of material, office or tutorial hours, and involvement in grading. Sole responsibility for at least one session.
LIS3970:SEMINARS: SPECIAL TOPICS:
LIS3999:DISSERTATION:
