TELCOM2000:INTRODUCTION TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS:Introduction to telecommunications for non-TELCOM majors.  Top-down orientation relates networking technologies to organizational goals and needs.  Data communications and internet technologies and basic system performance analysis.  TCP/IP, LANs, WANs, internetworking, and signals and communications media.
TELCOM2010:COMPUTER NETWORKING LABORATORY:The objective of this lab-based course is to gain knowledge of fundamental computer networking issues through hands-on experiments with network equipment and services.  The sequence of labs start at the physical layer and progress up the protocol stack to the application layer.  Topics covered are signal generation and analysis at the physical layer, ethernet and wlan performance and management, ip address planning and management, ip router configuration including RIP, OSPF,BGP, MPLS protocols, TCP connection control, stateful packet filtering, network monitoring and management, signaling protocols for voip services, and web-based services configuration.
TELCOM2011:TELECOMMUNICATIONS SEMINAR:Exposure to the latest issues in the telecommunications industry and research through talks by invited experts.
TELCOM2100:FUNDAMENTALS OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS:Fundamentals of network technology based on a layered protocol stack. Telephone network and internet architecture. Summary of upper layer protocols (HTTP, SMTP), transport protocols (UDP, TCP), and network protocols (IP). Analysis of link layer protocols and their performance. Overview of local area networks (CSMA/CD and CSMA/CA). Introduction to cables and signals.
TELCOM2110:NETWORK DESIGN:Methods and techniques for the design of computer/telecommunication networks. Management and business perspectives on network design, estimation of traffic demand and application requirements, network cost analysis, topological design, capacity assignment, graph theory and optimization based design algorithms, virtual network design, network design tools, wireless network design issues, availability analysis and survivable network design.
TELCOM2120:NETWORK PERFORMANCE:Introduction to techniques for performance modeling and analysis of computer systems and communication networks. Analysis of measurements, discrete event simulation and queuing theory.
TELCOM2125:NETWORK SCIENCE AND ANALYSIS:This course explores networks as a primary metaphor and mechanism for a variety of information-related phenomena. The advancement of interconnected information and communication technologies has made networks one of the dominant ways of analyzing the use and flow of information among individuals, institutions, and societies. The course starts with the basics of graph theory and moves to understand network structures such as social networks, ecological webs, it and infrastructure systems, telecommunications networks, and market distribution and allocation structures. As a prerequisite, students should have a command of mathematics through linear and matrix algebra at the Undergraduate level.
TELCOM2215:UNIFIED COMMUNICATIONS:After describing how humans communicate orally and visually, this course goes on to describe the technology and network architectures that provide audio and video telecommunications using conventional circuit-switched telephony, newer packet-switched "internet telephony" (VOIP), and streaming video over the internet.  Basic knowledge of the physical layer is helpful, but students must be familiar with TCP/IP.
TELCOM2227:INTERNET TELEPHONY:Technology for offering telephony over an internet including:  voice-over-IP end points and protocols, end-to-end delay, telephony signaling protocols, gateways and network components, telephone service provision, multi-point, network issues, and the future.  Presents market, policy, and economic issues; differentiates VoIP on public or private internets.
TELCOM2310:APPLICATIONS OF NETWORKS:Foundational principles, architectures, and techniques employed in computer networks. Protocols and mechanisms used in the internet TCP/IP protocol suite, including the operation of both wide-area and local-area networks. Special emphasis on analysis of network and transport layer protocols.
TELCOM2321:WIDE AREA NETWORKS:Basic principles of broadband networks.  Protocols suitable for broadband networks, with emphasis on atm.  Other technologies, such as frame relay and SMDS.  Design issues for high speed networks including network characterization, application performance guarantees, traffic policing and congestion control.
TELCOM2326:ADVANCED TOPICS IN DATABASE MANAGEMENT:Advanced graduate course on database systems. Key issues that typically arise in the context of large-scale enterprise database management in heterogeneous wide-area environments including distributed and non-relational database systems, networK-centric data management, web-based information systems, heterogeneous databases, information integration, and wireless data management.
TELCOM2420:PROJECT MANAGEMENT:Techniques and tools to assist in the managing process. Uses case study approach.
TELCOM2700:INTRODUCTION TO WIRELESS NETWORKS:For students with a basic background of telecommunications who are not for telecom majors.  Principles of wireless communications and how they differ from wired communications.  Fundamental concepts including: transmission and mitigation techniques (e.g., Modulation and coding, propagation, interference and antennas) for wireless systems, multiplexing techniques, wireless system architectures, mobility management, security, protocols and location technology.  Systems include: cellular phone networks (e.g., Cdma2000, umts), wireless local area networks (e.g., Ieee 802.11G), personal area networks (e.g., Bluetooth), fixed point broadband wireless (e.g., WiMAX) and satellite systems.
TELCOM2727:APPLICATION DEVELOPMEMT FOR MOBILE DEVICES:Focus on information system applications that run on top of wireless infrastructure such as multimedia messaging, mobile inventory control, location aware services including wireless technologies (gsm, cdma2000, umts, 802.11, Bluetooth), mobile information systems and applications (m-business, location-based services, wireless crn), wireless information system challenges and architectures (security, reliability, mobility, power conservation, gateways, proxies), mobile application protocols (SMS, ems, mms, wap), thin and thick client mobile application development (wml, vxml, Java, j2me, j2ee, .Netcf, c#), and business case studies of mobile applications.
TELCOM2810:INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY:Fundamental issues and first principles of security and information assurance (confidentiality/privacy, integrity, authentication, identification, authorization, availability, access control).  Business issues of risk analysis and management of resources.  Issues in information systems security; analysis, design, and coding of information systems/ networks for security; techniques for building secure organizational systems; e-commerce related security issues; policy, legal and ethical issues in security.
TELCOM2811:HACKING FOR DEFENSE:This course will teach students how to build products and services using lean methods.  This will be done by solving real-world military and intelligence community problems.  The course uses the lean launchpad platform for entrepreneurship.  This is a highly customer-centered hypothesis-test approach to developing a mission modes, and is particularly well-suited for technology startups.  It incorporates customer needs and user testing to build a minimum viable prototype.  At the conclusion of the course, students will be able to understand the problems/needs of searching for product-market fit; understand all the stakeholders, deployment issues, costs, resources, and ultimate mission value; deliver minimum viable products that match customer needs in an extremely short time; produce a repeatable model that can be used to launch other potential technology solutions.
TELCOM2813:SECURITY MANAGEMENT AND COMPUTER FORENSICS:Security management in information systems and networks. Intrusion detection systems, anomaly detection, network forensics,  application logging, auditing and data management, contingency planning, digital immune systems; alarm and responses; security standards; ethical and legal issues in information; cyber-evidence.
TELCOM2820:CRYPTOGRAPHY:Principles of number theory, cryptographic algorithms and cryptanalysis.  Steganography, block and stream ciphers, secret key encryption (des, res, re-n), primes, random numbers, factoring, and discrete logarithms. Public key encryption (rsa, Diffie-Helman, elliptical curve cryptography, n'tru); key management, hash functions (md5, sha-1, ripemd-160, HMAC).
TELCOM2821:NETWORK SECURITY:Principles of network security and management.  Review of network vulnerabilities, security at the link, network and transport layers; dial-up security (pap, chap, radius, diameter), ipsec, ssl, and vpns.  Email security (PGP, S/MIME); Kerberos; x.509 Certificates; AAA and Mobile IP; SNMP security; firewalls; filters and gateways; policies and implementation of firewall policies; state full firewalls; fire wall appliances.
TELCOM2825:INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION:Techniques for the protection and survivability of information systems and networks. Critical infrastructure definition, risk management, vulnerability and risk analysis, fault and attack trees, availability analysis, traffic restoration schemes and survivable network design and management techniques; critical infrastructure simulation, CIP policy and legal issues, SCADA systems.
TELCOM2829:ADVANCED CRYPTOGRAPHY:Algorithm complexity, advanced number theory (Galois fields, quadratic residues, zero knowledge schemes, one-time signatures), efficient implementation of encryption schemes in hardware and software and other advanced topics in cryptography.
TELCOM2830:CAPSTONE IN SECURITY:Integrative class for master's students in their final semester of the SAIS track.  Combination of business and technical case studies and group projects.  Case studies focus on business/economics aspects of providing information assurance and how this service impacts technology.  Group projects involve design and development of a prototype secure and survivable information system including application development, system deployment, system optimization and system economics.
TELCOM2921:INDEPENDENT STUDY IN NETWORKING:
TELCOM2922:INDEPENDENT STUDY IN COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS:
TELCOM2923:INDEPENDENT STUDY: COMPUTER COMMUNICATION:
TELCOM2924:INDEPENDENT STUDY: TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADMINISTRATION:
TELCOM2925:INDEPENDENT STUDY: TELECOMMUNICATIONS ECONOMICS AND POLICY:
TELCOM2926:INDEPENDENT STUDY: HUMAN COMMUNICATION:
TELCOM2927:INDEPENDENT STUDY IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATION:
TELCOM2928:INDEPENDENT STUDY SECURITY ASSURED INFORMATION SYSTEMS:
TELCOM2931:SPECIAL TOPICS IN NETWORKING:Selected relevant subjects in networking, either as a traditional course or as a survey of new literature. Content varies depending on student and instructor interest.
TELCOM2937:SPECIAL TOPICS IN WIRELESS NETWORKS:Selected relevant subjects in wireless telecommunications, either as traditional course or as survey of new literature.  Content varies depending on student and instructor interest.
TELCOM2940:PRACTICUM:For students who desire experience in applying the knowledge and skills acquired in their course work and laboratory sessions.  Students are responsible for arranging a practicum with a business or organization.
TELCOM2941:MASTER'S THESIS:The thesis is a report of original, theoretical, or laboratory work suitable for publication.
TELCOM2982:TELECOMMUNICATIONS COOPERATIVE PROGRAM:
